Dandelions
I used to pick dandelions for my mother. I would burst into the house, sweaty from a day spent running in the rising heat of spring, and hold out my sticky little fist, tightly gripping a cluster of little yellow flowers.
“I picked these for you.”
My sisters would point at them and laugh.
“Don’t you know dandelions are a weed?”
My mother didn’t laugh. She smiled, bent down, plucked those little green stems from my hand, and placed them in a small plastic cup with a bit of water.
“Thank you.”
Now, I have little ones of my own. They pick dandelions for me. I smile, place them in some water, and say thank you. Those little yellow flowers stare at me from their tiny vase, one my son picked out just to hold them. In their soft petals I remember my own little legs running down the sidewalk, tiny eyes alert for another glint of yellow. I see in those flowers what my mother must have seen in the ones I picked for her. I see a child’s love, their eagerness to share this speck of beauty with the ones they hold dear.
So much of parenting is spent looking at goals, planning things for your child. What will they eat, where will they go to school, how much time can they spend watching the tv. Actions we take to shape their development. We can control what our child experiences, but we can’t control what they remember.
We spent months planning a vacation, working to make sure the flight’s going to arrive in time for the shuttle bus, waiting for the tickets to go on sale for the national park, getting hotel reservations in four different cities to line up correctly. What does the child remember? How hard you laughed at a cartoon in a motel in a tiny town in Arizona.
What children so often remember is not our actions, but our reactions. For most of their early lives, their only example is you. Every time you smile, or you cry, or you get angry, they learn that whatever is happening is something to smile, or cry, or get angry at.
I remember that my mother smiled at me when I brought her dandelions. Now I smile at my sons when they bring me dandelions.
