The Depths of Time
A flicker, just there, at the foot of the cliffs opposite. A mandral exploring behind a small bush, hoping to find some dinner. Its small rodent-like body flitted about in frantic little twitches, determined to find its next meal without becoming another’s. From a cleft midway up the cliff he watches it scurry across the desert floor, its pattern hypnotizing even to him. How strange, he reflects, the curious way that life finds alternate paths to such similar outcomes. This dry desert landscape housed a unique set of flora and fauna to the thousands, perhaps millions of other biomes he had seen, themselves unique, yet similar creatures filled similar niches. He observes the shrewd little mandral scamper, seeing in its movement a realization of the same patterns as a million other little clusters of biology that scrounge up a living where life chases the water.
She will be here soon. Though their meeting is not planned, he knows it. Theirs was an interesting link, forged through the eons by a shared experience of endless lives lived. Were they friends? Each had extinguished billions of lives in quests to destroy the other, so perhaps not. Were they enemies? They were each other's only company on the infinite wave of time they rode, so, again, perhaps not.
There, just around the bend, out of sight. He watches the path, awaiting her emergence. Her form breaks the shape of the cliff, their existence once again concurrent in the river of time across space. Her eyes rise to meet his, solidifying the link. Their next meeting has arrived.
She sits with him in the cleft, shoulders touching in the close confines of the stone. The climb was difficult, and the brightest of the suns brushes the horizon as the panting induced by her exertion slows. The sky dims, falling into the shadow of the planet below them.
“I knew it would be today,” he says.
She looks at him, amused by his claim. Not because it is untrue, for she herself had had the same knowledge. Rather for his observance of it, for they always knew. Theirs were paths intertwined in their tumble through reality, and despite many searches along the endless march for others who, like them, never perished, neither had ever found another companion. When two have been isolated in their coincidence so long, their relationship springs to a life of its own, moving and growing to reflect its members. That life imparts a knowledge to those members of its behavior, and through it they know one another.
“How does this one go?” she asks.
“It is short, I fear,” he answers. “The end of the march is coming.”
“I feel no end,” she replies.
“There have been times when we have parted, unsure of the next,” he says. “But when this parting comes, I am sure of the next, or rather the absence of it.”
“There will be no other before the end?” she asks.
“This is the last,” he answers, finality in his tone.
She scans the desert in the twilight almost-night of the second sun’s noon. She considers that she should spend this time speaking with him, but knows not what she could say that has not already been said. Instead she sits, enjoying his quiet presence. Many times had they parted that she had hoped at the time would be the last, yet now that it had come she could not bear the weight of it. The infinite loneliness that awaited her weighed heavy, though it was not yet here.
Neither move, watching dim shadows appear and grow longer as the second sun progresses from its noon to follow the first below the horizon for the first of the deep nights. Stars peek out, and their eyes traverse the many dots, seeing among them the many they had visited together. The mandral scurries back to its den to shelter against the cold of the deep night, equipped neither for the temperatures nor the creatures that roamed in the absence of the light. The desert hushes, nothing audible but the faintest whisper of the wind. He clears his throat to break the almost-silence, before he speaks.
“Perhaps you will find another.”
“I do not think I could,” she answers.
“If you stretch long enough,” he says, “another must arise.”
“It is not the finding of another that worries me,” she says, then chokes on the next words before pushing them out. “It is the fact that that other, would not be you.”
“What am I that this end moves you so?” he asks.
“After so long, do you still not know?” she asks in return. “You are my love.”
“Ah,” he answers, “so that is what bound us together.”
“Indeed it was,” she says. “And I will miss it greatly.”
“Though it ends,” he says, “I am glad that across the vastness of space and through the depths of time, we found one another. It has made the journey easier, though the end is now much harder.”
No more to be said, they lie down in the small opening, their feet dangling off the edge. Sleep takes them. She dreams, as she has not for so long, and despite the fancy of the dreams they grant no experience that could be seen as novel against her cosmic existence.
The shallow night comes once more with the rising of the third sun, waking her. Her hand stretches, seeking the warmth of his presence, but does not find it. Her eyes open, confirming the emptiness her hands had reported. There, in the cleft, alone, she knows it too.
It has ended.
