The Impulse
When Life first awoke, it wandered its environment, consuming lesser matter and speeding its way to extinction. Then one day, a new form of Life arose. This new Life was special, in a way that would prove to be both a blessing and a curse. This Life could feel the Impulse, and the Impulse called to it. The Life followed the call, and taught its children to feel the Impulse as well. Its children and its grandchildren and its great grandchildren all sought the Impulse, and it fed their powers over their world. They grew great and built collosal structures to harvest the Impulse. Successive generations built upon these structures, each pushing their way toward the Impulse, taking as much as they could hold.
But as their reign grew ancient, another, newer form of Life arose. This Life learned that a far easier path to the Impulse was to take it from those around you. And so this new Life slaughtered the others and feasted on their remains, that they might ingest the Impulse in their flesh. The two forms of Life pitched their battle through the whole of their domain, with these new voracious Life forms driving the first toward extinction.
As the battle raged and the cannibal Life grew stronger, a third new form of Life arose. This Life found that as the Life that felt the Impulse lost its hold on the world, the Impulse was harder to get. And so it turned to the next most powerful source: the cannibals themselves.
And so Life continued to form new methods of hoarding the Impulse, using it to further their own interests and building vast empires with its power. A tenuous balance was found between the various different forms, with each form finding a small stream of Impulse on which to survive. If ever Life arose that grew too great at hording the Impulse, another would arise and find its weakness.
But now a new Life form has arisen. This new form is unlike any before it. Great swathes of Life are destroyed to make way for vast arrays of Impulse harvesting for just one of these new forms. All other beings are allowed to exist only if they provide Impulse to these new masters. Their power only grows, but in the back of their minds, the quiet whisper of their ancestors echoes in their minds. "Who's coming for us?”